The book of Hosea is packed with spiritual treasure, wouldn't you say?
Yeah, absolutely. It reveals aspects of Jehovah's personality, his sovereignty,
and there's so much we can apply ourselves. We just have to know how to find the treasure.
In that case, let's dig into Hosea.
Love too.
So a good way to start is by watching the introduction to Hosea video.
It gives an overview of the book. It helps us to understand the historical context
and most importantly, it shows how it connects to God's kingdom.
That's a great study tip.
Hey, thanks.
The video mentioned that Hosea's career as a prophet continued for about 60 years
during a time of great political turmoil in Israel.
That wouldn't have been an easy assignment on its own,
but we can start to dig deeper by asking some questions.
Asking questions is such a fundamental step in digging for treasures.
So for example, how did Jehovah choose to start Hosea's prophetic career?
Hosea 1-2 says,
Go, marry a woman of prostitution, and have children of prostitution.
Yeah, can you imagine the first thing that Jehovah tells you as a prophet
is that he wants you to marry a woman who's going to be unfaithful to you?
I wonder how he felt.
What was his initial response?
What went through his mind, knowing that marital infidelity awaited him?
Many who have gone through that circumstance say that it's an excruciating and devastating experience.
But that's not all.
That verse also mentions have children of prostitution.
So there were children involved.
Hosea and Gomorrah had a son together, but later Gomorrah had two other children,
likely out of wedlock.
I wonder what that was like for Hosea.
Right? And if they weren't his, when did he find out?
How did he feel taking care of these children?
There are so many questions we can ask to make the account real.
Now, I've been asked this before, and I'm sure you have two.
Why would Jehovah ask Hosea to put himself in such a painful family situation?
It doesn't seem right.
How would you respond to that?
Why is such an important question when we're digging for treasures?
So think about it.
Jehovah really told him why, in that same verse where he commissioned him.
Because by prostitution, the land has turned completely away from following Jehovah.
The all scripture book says,
Israel had been the Jehovah like a wife who had become unfaithful, committing fornication.
Yet he would show his love for her and try to recover her.
Hosea's wife, Gomorrah, could accurately illustrate this.
So by having Hosea experience something similar to what Jehovah was going through with Israel,
Hosea could better empathize and communicate how deeply the people had hurt Jehovah.
Yeah, I can only imagine the weight that gave to Hosea's words.
Now, here's the big question.
What does this reveal about Jehovah's personality?
What stands out to you?
Here's something surprising about this account.
How, Jehovah told Hosea to take Gomorrah back.
Hosea chapter 3 verse 1 says,
Go once again, love the woman who is loved by another man and is committing adultery.
Just as Jehovah loves the people of Israel while they turn to other gods.
Hosea taking Gomorrah back wasn't to be mechanical.
Jehovah told Hosea to love this woman again.
Yeah, that's a much different response than simply pretending everything is okay.
That's restoration.
So it shows that even though Jehovah was deeply hurt,
he still loved Israel and wanted them to return.
And not just out of obligation,
he wanted to restore that loving intimate relationship.
That's Jehovah's loyal love.
What a glimpse into Jehovah's personality.
And really, his sovereignty.
He is not only loyal, he is a god of loyal love.
Outstanding.
Okay, so the next step.
Make it personal.
The study tips on the back of the watchtower suggest
identify lessons and apply them.
So what's a takeaway?
Disloyalty causes Jehovah so much pain.
But the opposite is also true.
When we imitate Jehovah's loyal love,
he must be so pleased.
So when we do our best to maintain a loving atmosphere in our marriage,
even though it isn't easy,
or if we feel mistreated,
when we are loyal to our brothers and sisters
and work to restore a damaged relationship,
even when they hurt us,
we make Jehovah happy.
Yeah, we're imitating him.
It's not mechanical.
It's an act of loyal love.
We don't just forgive.
We love.
Another takeaway.
Maybe we've hurt Jehovah by our actions in the past.
Those memories may stay with us even if we've repented and gained forgiveness.
We might find it hard to forgive ourselves.
But that's not how Jehovah wants us to feel.
Just like with the Israelites,
he still wants to be our god and assure us of his forgiveness and loyal love.
Remembering this account can give us peace when we've made a mistake.
Look at what we can find with just a few steps,
getting an overview from the introduction video,
asking questions to dig into the details and context,
looking for what it teaches us about Jehovah's personality
and then making it personal.
The book of Hosea is packed with such gems.
And we didn't even dig everything out of those verses.
Why did Jehovah require Hosea to pay to buy Gomer back?
What do the names of the children reveal about Jehovah?
Why did Jehovah hold out a hope of a future king from David's line?
How can I imitate Hosea's example of accepting challenging assignments?
There is still so much there.
Then let's keep going.
There's no end to the treasure we can find in the book of Hosea.